build-in-container/README.md, before:

# Build-in-container
The build-in-container tool provides the user with an easy-to-use, distribution and platform agnostic, container build for Mariner packages. The container is complete and independent, and eliminates the requirement for the user to interact with Mariner toolkit to build packages.

Please install docker on your system before using the tool.

## Usage
The run.sh script presents these options
-t      creates container image
-b      creates container and builds Mariner
-i      create interactive Mariner build container
-c      cleans up the current workspace
--help  shows help

## Details on what goes on inside the container:
- 'create-build-container.sh' creates an image that the docker can use to launch the Mariner build container. It downloads a Mariner2.0 container image, and makes suitable modifications to it. The image is tagged as 'msft/mariner-toolchain:2.0'

- 'mariner-docker-run.sh' starts a docker container using the image produced in Step(1), setup the Mariner build system inside the container, and build Mariner packages. 

**Place specs to build under SPECS/**

**The output from the build will be available under out/ (RPMS and SRPMS)**

- The container installs the necessary packages required for the build setup, and sets up the directory structure for build. This is achieved by 'setup.sh' under scripts/

- The build starts with cloning the Mariner GitHub repository, and downloading the toolchain. Using the tools from Mariner toolkit, it reads the spec files under SPECS/, installs the build dependepdencies, builds the specs and packages them into an RPM. Each pacakge is built inside a chroot environment. This is achieved by the 'build.sh' under scripts/

## Advantages:
- It is convenient and useful for developement environment
- It lets the user build Mariner without having to go into much details on the build system

## Disadvantages:
- The number of chroots is limited to 12
- It is using chroot jails inside containers, and containers are known to be slow

Commit message:

Address comments on interactive mode, cleanup. Add make image [WIP]

build-in-container/README.md, after:

# Build-in-container
The build-in-container tool provides a developer tool to quickly build Mariner packages and images. It is easy-to-use, and distribution and platform agnostic. It sets up a build environment in an expedient manner using a container.

Please install docker on your system before using the tool.

## Usage
The run.sh script presents these options
-t      creates container image
-b      creates container, builds Mariner and outputs to out/
-i      create an interactive Mariner build container
-c      cleans up the current workspace
--help  shows help on usage

**Place specs to build under SPECS/**

**The output from the build will be available under out/ (RPMS, SRPMS and images)**

**Logs are published under logs/**

## Details on what goes on inside the container:
### Creating container image
'create-build-container.sh' creates an image that the docker can use to launch the Mariner build container. It downloads a Mariner2.0 container image, and makes suitable modifications to it. The output image is tagged as 'msft/mariner-toolchain:2.0'

### Running container in the specified mode
'mariner-docker-run.sh' starts a docker container using the image produced in Step(1). 

In the _build_ mode, it sets up the Mariner build system inside the container, builds all the specs under SPECS/ and all the images under toolkit/imageconfigs/, and outputs to out/.

In the _interactive_ mode, it sets up the Mariner build system inside the container, and starts the container at /sources/scripts/toolkit/. The user can invoke Mariner `make` commands to build packages, images and more. Please see the [section](https://github.com/microsoft/CBL-MarinerTutorials/tree/main/buildInContainer/build-in-container#sample-make-commands) for sample `make` commands, and visit [Mariner Docs](https://github.com/microsoft/CBL-Mariner/blob/2.0/toolkit/docs/building/building.md) for the complete set of commands. 

### Helper scripts

- 'scripts/setup.sh' installs the required pacakges, downloads the Mariner toolkit from GitHub (if missing), downloads Mariner2.0 toolchain RPMs, and sets up the environment variables required for Mariner builds.

- 'scripts/build.sh' The build starts with cloning the Mariner GitHub repository, and downloading the toolchain. Using the tools from Mariner toolkit, it reads the spec files under SPECS/, installs the build dependepdencies, builds the specs and packages them into an RPM. Each pacakge is built inside a chroot environment. This is achieved by the '

## Advantages:
- It is convenient and fast for developement environment
- It gives the user an option to build Mariner without having to go into the details of the build system

## Disadvantages:
- The number of chroots is limited to 12
- It is using chroot jails inside containers, and containers are known to be slow

## Sample make commands:
`make build-packages -j$(nproc)` would build specs under SPECS/ and populate out/ with the built SRPMs and RPMs

`make image -j$(nproc) REBUILD_TOOLS=n REBUILD_PACKAGES=n CONFIG_FILE=imageconfigs/image-config.json` would build image config under scripts/toolkit/imageconfigs/ and place it under out/
